.TH SECURITY_MONITOR 8 "2025" "Security Monitor" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
security_monitor \- Real-time security monitoring and response using eBPF
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B security_monitor
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B security_monitor
is a kernel-level security monitoring tool that uses eBPF (extended Berkeley Packet Filter) to detect and respond to suspicious process behavior in real-time. It monitors system calls related to file access and command execution to detect potential security threats.
.PP
Without any options, security_monitor runs in monitoring mode, which logs suspicious activities without taking any enforcement actions.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-enforce
Enable enforcement mode. In this mode, security_monitor will not only detect suspicious activities but also take action (such as terminating processes) when critical security violations are detected.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help information and exit.
.SH SECURITY FEATURES
.PP
security_monitor provides the following security monitoring capabilities:
.TP
.B Sensitive File Access Monitoring
Detects when unauthorized processes attempt to access sensitive system files like /etc/shadow, /etc/passwd, etc.
.TP
.B Suspicious Command Execution
Monitors execution of potentially risky commands and programs, especially when executed with suspicious arguments or by unauthorized users.
.TP
.B Privilege Escalation Detection
Monitors attempts to escalate privileges through system calls like setuid, especially when a non-root user attempts to gain root privileges.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is stored in /etc/security_monitor.conf or can be specified with the --config option. See the example configuration file for details on available options.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful program execution.
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/security_monitor.conf
The system-wide configuration file.
.TP
.I /var/log/security_monitor.log
Default log file location.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Run in monitoring mode (alerts only):
.PP
.RS
sudo security_monitor
.RE
.PP
Run in enforcement mode (alerts + process termination):
.PP
.RS
sudo security_monitor --enforce
.RE
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to: https://github.com/security-monitor/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Security Monitoring Team
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR auditd (8),
.BR apparmor (7),
.BR selinux (8) 